# ARS

#Activity Recording System
#Introduction
The UN Sustainable Development Goals (www.undp.org) will be adopted as the basis for the high level global strategy.  We recognize that significant advances in healthcare are taking place and are likely to continue.  Identifying and recognizing those contributing and hindering progress is a reasonable step because if accepted it could become a new lever to increase alignment and encourage progress.

#Purpoose 
The purpose of the activity recording system (ARS) is to provide a place to gather data and supporting evidence on activities taking place that others judge are helping or hindering progress.  The focus is on gathering facts initially but these can be augmented by opinions on the extent to which different behaviours are a problem.  Some may see ARS as an unfortunate acronym however it should also be memorable that if you see some behaving like an arse and it's causing problems then you go to the system of the same name and report it.

We still approach this problem from a hard determinism worldview and are consequently empathetic to everyone's behaviour.  However it seems reasonable to consider that a future point where life extending healthcare is available but not in sufficient quantities that the entire planet can benefit.  Consequently it seems reasonable to consider if individual behaviour should become a factor in deciding who should be entitled to benefit.  The earlier evidence collection starts the better placed we are to make that decision.  Raising awareness of the possibility of such a scenario unfolding could be a significant influencing factor in changing behaviour.  This would further accelerate progress. The greater the scale and profile of this approach across the planet the more likely it is to work.

#Privacy
Personal privacy is important and there is clear potential for this system to conflict with that and expose individual actions to greater scrutiny.  However we are all sharing a planet and need to continue to do so.  This requires that people are accountable for their actions.  This system should only be used for recording actions and behaviours that are having a significant positive or negative effect on other people and that they want to be identified.  In these circumstances accountability trumps privacy and the activity should be recorded.  We will provide security features to restrict access to some details on the site - however our thinking at this stage is that this will be primarily focussed on protecting users reporting and viewing the site.

#Data Collection Approach and Structure
Initial data collection doesn't appear to be complex.  We would just need names, location organisations, some category tags and ability to attach evidence via narrative, images and videos.  The town and country where the activity took place should probably be sufficent and this could then be geocoded for queries.  It doesn't look like actual addresses would be necessary  and to do so may be unnecessarily intrusive.  This can then be augmented with standard filtering and tagging functions to allow others to corroborate and clarify activities taking place and perhaps the reasons for them.

#Security Options
It seems reasonable to allow anonymous submission of material provided mechanisms can be put in place to prevent utter junk being submitted to the system.  Requiring authentication is probably a disincentive to logging so most likely a recaptcha or similar may be a simple solution to this.  However allowing anonymous submission is probably not sufficient protection for reporters in all circumstances.  At a minimum it seems that some sort of timevaulting should be offered such that details of what has been submitted would remain secure and secret for a period of time.  We will need to consider how much granularity is required around this feature and also if there are any circumstance in which early unlocking could be permitted.  

#Viewing the data
Some fairly standard enquires would allow reviewing of recent activity by location and agreement and potentially some refinement of classifciation and asssessment of the best and worst things happening in particular areas and periods.  There doesn't appear to be anything overly challenging here but we could have rules to recommend rejection of material and possibly also some processes for corroboration.  In general we think this could all be made somewhat enjoyable and if we can tap in to many people's desires and belief in a better world and sell the benefits of this activity then it could reach a tipping point and become a powerful movement for social change.

#Data Review, Cleansing and Categorisation Processes
In general for any sort of review process we should be looking to keep facts separate from judgement.  Correct structuring of forms and voting and so forth should allow this to happen.  There is likely to be a huge diversity of views on what is good and bad behaviour on the system and indeed it could be a key role for the system to try and get more consensus around this.  The successful enterpreneur is a revered figure in many of your societies and we are convinced that you will continue to require people driven to improving the world.  However rapid accumulation of wealth by an individual is not always the product of talent, hard work and good luck.  At times bullying, exploitation, deception and protectionism can be involved too.  So for us it will be interesting to see how entrepreneurial activity is reported and classified on the system. 

#Process Options
We don't see any real issue with allowing anyone to rank and analyse.  However all such activity would we think be carried out by authenticated users to provide some sort of accountability around the classifications happening on the system and potentially to look at rewarding this activity provided it is well done.  The system should also maintain a list of organisations however all activity would be logged against individuals.  This could help to form networks based on organisations and possibly pick up and link reportees in various ways.  We are looking to hold an event to confirm some of initial design choices for the activity recording system and the results of that can be used to complete the actual specification for the system.  The latest list of questions for that event and their status is visible here.  Please help by using the net decision making system to resolve these questions and agree the initial requirements for this system.  Further developments could also be managed using the networked decision making platform.

#GDPR and Similar data privacy challenges
This will need to be analysed fairly carefully in areas where it applies.  There is a very valid purpose for collecting the data but in the cases where people are doing objectionable things the subjects consent is unlikely to be forthcoming and 'right to be forgotten' and so forth could come into play.  However some of what we could well be starting with will be a matter of public record and so may this may not always be an issue.  
